---
layout: post
title:  "Public Domain Retcons: Auro, Lord of Jupiter"
date:   August 28th, 2013
categories: pdr comics nerdery
---

Super Heroes are becoming our new mythology. The Avengers and Batman are far more well-circulated than, say, Aesop's Fables in popular culture. But these (awesome) creations are owned. Unlike the legends of yore, you can get sued if you try and tell a Batman story that DC doesn't like. Granted, fanfiction is a thriving community, but at the core there's a very real separation between who's allowed to officially create Wolverine content and who's not.

Enter [Public Domain Superheroes](http://pdsh.wikia.com/wiki/Public_Domain_Super_Heroes "Public Domain Super Heroes Wiki"). Why not dig for inspiration, for modern myths, in the same junk drawer of golden and silver age comics that anyone can access? Why leave John Carter as the only famous public domain superhero? Why not open source comics?

With those questions in mind, I humbly present a proposal for a retcon and rebirth of [Auro, Lord of Jupiter](http://pdsh.wikia.com/wiki/Auro_(1) "Auro, Lord of Jupiter on the Public Domain Super Heroes Wiki").

In the distant future, humankind has colonized the solar system - mostly on Mars and the moons of Saturn and Jupiter. The story starts following Doctor John Hardwich, making preparations on Europa for a James Cameron-esque expedition deep into the compressed gas oceans of Jupiter, to search for new life and record what lies in in the dark, impenetrable depths of Jupiter's atmosphere.

Him and his crack team of scientists launch their ship, sensors blinking, into the dark depths. Time passes, readings accrue and the crew settles into their routine. Hardwich loses himself in his work, his mind often drifting to daydreams of odd images - fighting giant monsters, leaping across continents in a single bound. The dreams started fairly mundane, but he notes they get progressively more violent. Daily reports are sent back, and everything goes according to plan, until they stumble across a structure deep beyond the depth limit of their ship. A faint signal comes from the structure, unintelligible. The crew has a choice: go deeper, and risk never returning, or go back? The crew votes to go back. John Hardwich votes to go. The ship starts to head back.

The dreams come to Hardwich more frequently on the slow voyage back. He starts to feel his sanity slipping. Like a drumbeat, in the back of his mind, a word repeats. 'Auro,' the word is foreign to him, but holds significance. As the ship gets further and further, the drumming of Auro becomes louder and louder. First, its his lab assistant, neck snapped over a miscalculation. Then, Hardwich crushes the esophagus of his harshest critic in a scientific debate. Imprisoned, he softly mutters gibberish.

More incidents of breached sanity happen. In a matter of days, the ship goes off course, and ceases to communicate. The public is told the ship's hull breached and all were lost. But truly, no one knows what happened to the Hardwich expedition.

Ten years later, Europa's labs receive a strange transmission. A compressed wave that sounds like a drumbeat - each beat a chant of the word 'Auro.' Major Martha Gale, a battle hardened veteran of the Rhean Rebellion, is briefed on the failed mission and told she is to lead a new investigation into the depths of Jupiter, attempt to discover the fate of the Hardwich expedition, and find what is causing the signal that now threatens the Jupiter colonies. Will what lies in the dark heart of Jupiter change the solar system, or throw it into madness? What is 'Auro?' Find out, in **AURO, LORD OF JUPITER #1!**